US Secretary of State Anthony blinkin
has begun his ninth visit to the Middle
East since the War Began to push a new
plan for a ceasefire in Gaza even as
Israel carries out more air strikes the
Hamas run Gaza Health Ministry says at
least 17 Palestinians most from the same
family were killed in an attack near the
Central City of Dar albala the US
remains optimistic about achieving a
ceasefire but Hamas which carried out
the October 7th Terror attacks has said
any signs of progress are an illusion
and accuses Israel of negotiating in bad
faith it's a site that has become sadly
all too familiar for the people of Gaza
another set of bodies carried away in
bags as mourners watch on
helplessly an overnight Israeli air
strike killed a mother father and their
six children as they
slept through tears the grandfather of
the dead children tried to make makes
sense of the sudden massive loss of so
many of those that he
loved my daughter her husband and their
six children were safe on Al mazra
Street in the DI Al balak area when a
missile struck them completely
destroying the apartment the mother died
and all six children perished the whole
family the oldest child was 15 and the
youngest a year and a half what was
their
crime 10 months into this devastating
War Gaz is teetering on the
brink food is still scarce the health
system is on its knees and the UN says
nine out of 10 people are now internally
displaced some many times
over nonetheless the White House has
said they are optimistic a ceasefire can
be reached between Israel and Hamas
though Hamas has called that optimism an
illusion and even if a deal can be
reached for many people here in Gaza
it's already far too
late Israeli negotiators have expressed
cautious optimism about reaching a fire
deal but prime minister Benyamin
Netanyahu accuses Hamas of dragging its
feet Hamas remains obstinate it hasn't
even sent a representative to the talks
in Doha therefore the pressure should be
directed at Hamas and its leader sinir
not at the Israeli
government Let's cross now to Jerusalem
where we're joined by DW respondent
Felix tamsut uh great to see you Felix
um so US Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin as we've seen has arrived in
Israel it's his uh ninth visit to the
region since the War Began in October so
is he hoping that his in-person meetings
will help get a ceasefire and hostage
deal absolutely that's the biggest hope
uh among the mediators in general not
only when it comes to Secretary of State
uh the US Secretary of State Vis visit
visiting here uh in Israel uh there's
this General sense of cautious optimism
at the same time it needs to be said
that uh Anthony blink's visit to the
region has another uh um context I would
say uh to the extent that uh over the
negotiation there's the issue of Iran
and hisbah waiting um waiting to
retaliate on the killings of fuoka the
his balah chief and um is hania the
Hamas Chief killed in tan um and
basically this is basically the the
whole issue of their retaliation looms
over the
negotiations uh I think the mediators
also have the issue in mind that should
a ceas fire be reached uh and all out
war in the region could be prevented
that's why they're hoping to reach a
deal by the end of this week now Felix
while these talks are taking place the
war in Gaza Contin news we're still
seeing many civilian deaths doesn't that
weaken Israel's position in
negotiations when it comes to Israel
itself um the feeling is that it doesn't
hurt the negotiation quite the opposite
Israel sees its military operations as
part of its um whole operation of uh
securing the return of the hostages and
dismantling Hamas um it needs to be said
that hamas's positions have barely
changed if at at all uh during the
Israeli operation in Gaza um so it seems
like uh both sides don't uh see the
ongoing operation in Gaza as a big deal
obviously Hamas wants the Israeli forces
out of Gaza as part of its conditions of
reaching a ceasefire deal this is one of
the biggest hurdle of reaching such a
deal and it remains to be seen whether
the negotiators will be able to overcome
this big hurdle thanks Felix DW
correspondent Felix tamsut in Jerusalem
for us